>> Jem Young: Now we get to talk about
this weird word that I ran across
when I was first an engineer.
And I was like nginx?
N-ginx?
I'll save you the trouble cuz
you probably read a lot and
don't know how it's pronounced,
it's pronounced engine-x.
Which honestly in the history of software
applications is the coolest name of
all time.
It's like, what do you work on?
Nginx.
What does it do?
A little bit of everything.
People are like whoa.
Nginx is one of the most
popular web servers out there.
It's what we're gonna run today.
The other one you've probably heard of
is Apache, which is another popular one.
Apache is a little bit different and
it configures a lot different.
But if we're using PHP, I'd be
definitely using Apache, because PHP and
Apache go hand in hand,
they work really, really well.
They go so well it's actually
it's known as the LAMP stack.
Anybody know what the LAMP
stack stands for?
>> Speaker 2: Linux, Apache, Mongo-
>> Speaker 3: MySQL.
>> Speaker 2: MySQL and PHP.
>> Jem Young: Yep, exactly.
But anyways, Apache is another one you
might run into in your careers as a full
stack engineer or any sort of engineer.
But today we're gonna use Nginx.
I love Nginx cuz it's lightweight,
it is extremely fast.
I'm trying to think how fast, it can
handle more requests than you can throw at
it than your server can handle,
put it that way.
It's that fast.
It's a reverse proxy, it's a web server,
it's a proxy server, it's a file server,
it can do caching,
it can do performance tuning.
It can compress your file, send it out,
it can handle your encryption.
Nginx does a little bit of everything and
honestly it's amazing software.
But, we're not gonna go
too deep into it today,
we're just gonna use it just enough.
Because we can go really, really deep
where we're compressing our G-zip
levels to like level three, and
we're tuning our web sockets.
We might do that tomorrow, depending
on how well we do today, but for today,
we're just gonna configure this.
So the first thing we wanna do is,
actually I should explain
what a web server does.
We have a server,
we have just a basic server,
the server itself doesn't do anything.
In fact it doesn't even
respond to requests right now,
because it's not set up to do anything.
So requests hit your server,
>> Jem Young: What do?
We have to figure out something,
we have to figure out where
that request should go.
Should it go to the app?
Should it go to the database?
Should it go to a different
server entirely?
I don't know, that's why Nginx is there.
Nginx helps route those
requests to the right thing.
That's why it's called
a reverse proxy sometimes,
because it takes one request and
it proxies it somewhere else.
Versus a regular proxy which takes a bunch
of requests and proxies them to one place.
You'll hear it called reverse
proxy most of the time, but
it's really a web server,
it does a lot of things.
But Nginx is one the crux of one
of the things we're doing today.
I would say it's more important than
the actual application we're building is
tuning Nginx properly.
So let's install Nginx.
>> Jem Young: Because we're not root
anymore, we have to use sudo all the time
to install new software,
so sudo apt install nginx.
And I'll just do that now
cuz it might take a minute.
>> Jem Young: Yes.
>> Jem Young: And while that's installing
random bits of trivia you don't need to
know, there's a command called yes,
which all it does is type y.
And you're like why does that exist?
We can use the man page.
It just outputs anything you want,
usually it's yes.
So if you wanted to install
a bunch of software and
you didn't want to keep typing yes.
You can hit apt install, pipe it to y,
it'll automatically do yes for
everything until it exits.
Little things you didn't need to know,
but you do now, you can't unknow it.
All right, so then we're gonna start
Nginx, so sudo service nginx start.
Sudo service nginx start.
>> Jem Young: And Nginx is up and running
>> Jem Young: And
so let's test this out,
let's test this bad boy out.
Let me copy my IP just in case my
domain setup did not go through.
And say, jemisthebest,
whoop, jem I-S dot best.
All right, it works.
And this seems really simple, but remember
all the steps we had to go through to
configure our name servers,
and get our DNS records.
Then start the server and install and get
our server up and running, the SSH, and
we got it all running, and
now we get this Nginx page.
It's the little things,
more importantly is you understand
all the steps it took to get here.
And it seems really, really simple,
but you know that it's not,
underneath the hood was a lot of work.
Awesome, I should have shared
this screenshot with you,
when I bought my domain it cost me $1.80.
And see that ICAN fee?
Remember I talked about there's this
registrar that controls all the stuff, so
I don't know what this is, and
so I just paid a $0.18 fee.
Whenever you buy a domain, you renew it,
you're always paying this little tiny fee
that helps keep the Internet running.
So if you're ever wondering what that is,
that's why.
>> Jem Young: Awesome,
is everybody seeing the Nginx page?
Hopefully, if you didn't buy a domain,
just type in your IP.
So I can also do that and
I'm gonna get the same thing.
>> Jem Young: And if I really want to
get tactical, I can type in the port
80 which is the default port and
I'm gonna get the same thing again.
Nginx is now running on port 80,
it automatically opens the firewall to
port 80 for you, we don't have to do that.
And tomorrow we're gonna talk about
firewalls and configuring them properly,
but not today.
>> Jem Young: Okay, is everybody with me?
If you're not here,
pretty much everything else I'm
gonna say will not make any sense.
Cool, so now, we asked the causing
question, how does the Internet work?
There's a domain, it hits a name server,
the name server says, hey,
I know where you're trying to go.
Here's the IP, the IP gets passed off to
other routers and nodes and switches,
eventually hits your server.
When it hits your server,
it says what I do now?
Nginx says, hey, I know where to go,
I'm gonna route you to this default page,
just a blank HTML page.
That's how a lot of the Internet works so
far, and
we're gonna slowly build up until
it gets more and more complex.
Until you'll be masters,
some say frontend masters.